# Faceprints

Faceprints is a Swift CLI tool built off the work in [seeV](https://github.com/nexuist/seev) that assists with facial recognition and labeling tasks. It integrates seamlessly with other shell tools and scripts to provide a simple way to automate tasks that require facial recognition.

> A `Faceprint` is like a fingerprint for a face. It's a unique embedding that can be used to compare faces and determine if they are the same person.

Faceprints manages a faceprint index stored in your home directory. You can add and remove faceprints as well as classify faces in arbitrary photos. **It requires no Internet connection or third party models.**

## Supported Operations

### Classify a Photo

#### Applying Corrections

### Add a Faceprint

### Remove a Faceprint

### List Faceprints

### Extract a Faceprint

## The Faceprints Index

The index is stored in your home directory under the folder `.faceprints` (`/Users/<you>/.homeprints`). Each faceprint label gets its own folder inside this directory. Inside each folder is a series of face images that were used to generate the faceprint cropped from images passed in using the `faceprints add` command. The final faceprint embedding is stored in `avg.faceprint` as a binary file. This storage method is efficient and allows for quick comparisons between faceprints. The file is generated by averaging all the embeddings from every face image available in the folder. The re-generation of an `avg.faceprint` file is triggered whenever a face is added or removed using `faceprints add` or `faceprints remove`.  A JSON array of floats can also be extracted using the `faceprints extract` command (see #extract-a-faceprint).

## Installation

### Release

A release will be available soon.

* TODO: this

### Build from Source

```bash
swift build --configuration release
cp -f .build/release/faceprints /usr/local/bin/faceprints
```

## Development

```sh
swift run faceprints <arguments>
```

* Don't forget to increment the version number in `faceprints.swift`

## Next Steps

<!-- TODO -->

## License

```text
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2024 Andi Andreas

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```
